Zooming out update (#6019)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/graphing/faq/why-does-zooming-out-a-timeframe-also-smooth-out-my-graphs.md

---
title: Why does zooming out a timeframe also smooth out my graphs?
kind: faq
disable_toc: true
further_reading:
- link: "/developers/metrics/types/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Discover Datadog metrics types"
- link: "/graphing/functions/rollup/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn more about the rollup function"
---

> Within Datadog, a graph can only contain a set number of points and, as the timeframe over which a metric is viewed increases, aggregation between points occurs to stay below that set number. Thus you lose in granularity as you increase the timeframe. For instance, for a 4-hour time window, data is aggregated to have one value per minute. As you "zoom out" (i.e. select a larger timeframe) the data shown on the graph will represent larger time period.

Reviewer: > for a 4-hour time window, data is aggregated to have one value per minute. 

 ...value per minute **(for a line graph)**.

Bar graph would have 2m, we should clarify! https://github.com/DataDog/se-docs/wiki/%5BMetrics-102%5D-Time-and-Space-Aggregation

> You can manuall append the `.rollup()` function to your query to adjust the method and granularity of time aggregation. Datadog rolls up data points automatically by default, averaging values in the rollup interval for `GAUGE` metric type, for `RATE` and `COUNT` metric types the behaviour differs and values are summed without any interpollation, learn more with the documentation about [in-application metric types modifiers][1].

Reviewer: > You can manuall append

... can **manually** append...

> ...averaging values in the rollup interval for GAUGE metric type, for RATE and COUNT metric types...

Not based on type - docs request here: https://trello.com/c/WojQbdwj/1422-zooming-smooth-my-graphs-error?menu=filter&filter=zoom

GAUGE, RATE, and COUNT metrics all use .rollup(avg) by default. Queries with .as_count() or .as_rate() use rollup(sum); COUNT metrics append .as_count() in the GUI automatically.

---
title: Why does zooming out a timeframe also smooth out my graphs?
kind: faq
disable_toc: true
further_reading:
- link: "/developers/metrics/types/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Discover Datadog metrics types"
- link: "/graphing/functions/rollup/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn more about the rollup function"
---

> Within Datadog, a graph can only contain a set number of points and, as the timeframe over which a metric is viewed increases, aggregation between points occurs to stay below that set number. Thus you lose in granularity as you increase the timeframe. For instance, for a 4-hour time window, data is aggregated to have one value per minute for a line graph, and one value per two minutes for a bar graph. As you "zoom out" (i.e. select a larger timeframe) the data shown on the graph will represent larger time period.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Within Datadog, a graph can only contain a set number of points and, as the timeframe over which a metric is viewed increases, aggregation between points occurs so that the number of points remains under that set number. Thus, granularity is lost as the timeframe increases. For instance, for a four hour time window, data is aggregated to have one value per minute for a line graph, and one value per two minutes for a bar graph. As you "zoom out" (i.e. select a larger timeframe) the data shown on the graph represents a longer time period.
```

{{< img src="graphing/faq/smooth_line.mp4" alt="Smoothing a line graph" responsive="true" video="true" width="90%" >}}

When bars are displayed the rollup interval is more obvious:

{{< img src="graphing/faq/smoothing.mp4" alt="Smoothing a bar graph" responsive="true" video="true" width="90%" >}}

> **Note**: You can manually append the `.rollup()` function to your query to adjust the method and granularity of time aggregation. Datadog rolls up data points automatically by default, averaging values in the rollup interval for `GAUGE` metric type, for `RATE` and `COUNT` metric types the behaviour differs and values are summed without any interpollation, learn more with the documentation about [in-application metric types modifiers][1].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: You can manually append the `.rollup()` function to your query to adjust the method and granularity of time aggregation. Datadog rolls up data points automatically by default. Datadog averages values in the rollup interval for the `GAUGE` metric type. For `RATE` and `COUNT` metric types, the behavior differs, and values are summed without any interpolation. Learn more with the documentation about [in-application metric types modifiers][1].
```

> **Note**: You can manually append the `.rollup()` function to your query to adjust the method and granularity of time aggregation. Datadog rolls up data points automatically by default. Datadog averages values in the rollup interval for the `GAUGE` metric type. For `RATE` and `COUNT` metric types, the behavior differs, and values are summed without any interpolation. Learn more with the documentation about [in-application metric types modifiers][1].

Reviewer: > Datadog averages values in the rollup interval for the `GAUGE` metric type. For `RATE` and `COUNT` metric types, the behavior differs, and values are summed without any interpolation. 

This needs to get fixed? RATE and COUNT use rollup(avg), except when the UI adds .as_count() - however, other kinds of queries exist. .as_count() is not added when requests are made by the API, from monitors, etc. We should be explicit about the actual behavior.

  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn more about the rollup function"
---

Within Datadog, a graph can only contain a set number of points and, as the timeframe over which a metric is viewed increases, aggregation between points occurs so that the number of points remains under that set number. Thus, granularity is lost as the timeframe increases. For instance, for a four hour time window, data is aggregated to have one value per minute for a line graph, and one value per two minutes for a bar graph. As you "zoom out" (i.e. select a larger timeframe) the data shown on the graph represents a longer time period.

{{< img src="graphing/faq/smooth_line.mp4" alt="Smoothing a line graph" responsive="true" video="true" width="90%" >}}

When bars are displayed the rollup interval is more obvious:

{{< img src="graphing/faq/smoothing.mp4" alt="Smoothing a bar graph" responsive="true" video="true" width="90%" >}}

You can manually append the `.rollup()` function to your query to adjust the method and granularity of time aggregation. Datadog rolls up data points automatically by default, averaging values in the rollup interval for `GAUGE`, `RATE` and `COUNT` metric types.

> **Note**: If you query your metrics through the UI of a Datadog widget, an [in-application metric types modifiers][1] is added automatically to your `RATE` and `COUNT` metric types. This changes the `.rollup()` behaviour: values are summed without any interpollation.

Reviewer: > ...an [in-application metric types modifiers] is added...

Typo here - can we make "modifiers" not plural? Reads a little funny. Thanks!

Author: ```suggestion
**Note**: If you query your metrics through the UI of a Datadog widget, an [in-application metric types modifier][1] is added automatically to your `RATE` and `COUNT` metric types. This changes the `.rollup()` behaviour: values are summed without any interpolation.
```
